Let's talk about exercise number three.
We have a little bit different logic
than we did in the first two exercises,
where we're still going between
an inactive and an active state.
But now we're doing it
based on two events.
Whether there's a mousedown event,
we go from inactive to active, or
there's a mouseup event,
in which we go from active to inactive.
So let's go ahead and create that machine.
So our initial state is
going to be inactive,
just like the previous machine, and
we're going to have two states.
We're going to have inactive and active.
And so in each of these two states,
We could have an event that transitions
between inactive and active.
In the inactive states, when we have
a mousedown event, we go to active.
Again, this is using the shorthand syntax.
If we type target: 'active',
it's the same thing.
So on mouseup,
we go to target: 'inactive'.
Okay, the next step is we
want to create our service.
So we're going to be using interpret,
which is already imported for
you in order to do that.
So let's do interpret, and
we're going to pull in our machine here.
Okay, so let's talk about the difference
between createMachine and interpret.
createMachine essentially
creates a blueprint for
how your machine is supposed to behave.
You could think about it
as creating a really,
really fancy transition
function that's pure.
It doesn't keep any internal state and
you could share it in multiple locations
without fear of having its internal state
changed because it doesn't
have any internal states.
Now, a service is
an instance of that machine.
So a service will keep track of its own
internal state as you send events to it.
So another way you could
think of a service,
like a singleton,
with that machine's behavior.
Okay, the next thing we're going to do is
we're going to listen to state transitions
and set that data state attribute, just
like we did before, on the box element.
So we could say, service.onTransition,
and we get the state.
So let's go ahead and
console.log that state.value just to
make sure that things are working.
So we're gonna start the service
over here, service.start().
And then we're going to be sending
events over to the service.
Now, we could send the mousedown
event like normal.
So we could say, service.send(), and
we could either pass a string, or
we could pass an event object.
I prefer to be explicit,
passing things as strings or using
the shorthand syntax is really good if
you're quickly prototyping or in a hurry.
But in general use cases,
you want to use full objects,
just in case you want to add payload later
or you have any other application logic
requirements that will force you to use
an object instead of just a plain string.
So with service.send(),
we are going to send
an event of type mousedown.
And we're gonna do
the same thing over here.
So we're gonna send a mouseup event when
we get a mouseup event on elBox.
So let's try this out.
We're gonna go to Exercise 03,
and we're gonna see,
[COUGH] we're gonna see that
the state is changing in the console.
So when I hold down my mouse, it's active,
but once I release it, it's inactive.
So let's go ahead and put that state
right on elBox.dataset.states, and
we're gonna set it to that state.value.
So now let's see what happens.
Okay, cool, when our mouse is down,
we're in the active state, and
keep in mind I am holding
my mouse down right now,
and when I let go,
it's in the inactive state.
Now, one final note, DOM events,
such as what we received
from addEventListener, mousedown,
are also an event object.
Curiously enough, so if we console.log
this event, we're going to see
that we get a mouseevent, and
it has a whole bunch of things.
So you could consider
this the event payload.
But it also has a type, so if we go
to type, we see that it's mousedown.
Now this is great because we could
use those DOM events directly inside
service.send().
So instead of having to create
a whole new event object,
why don't we just give
it the entire event?
So we'll give it event.
And we'll just send the events here, too.
So now, you see,
it works exactly the same way.
And our code is pretty concise over here.
All the logic is contained right up here.
So that's exercise number three.